# Value Proposition

The actions outlined herein create a perfectly immutable record of loan Provenance Blockchain on a distributed system that acts as a ledger, registry and ultimately, exchange. The warehouse, securitization and liquidity benefits alone represent up to $90 billion or more in reduced fees, technology and personnel costs and improved transparency and liquidity in the $3 trillion annual securitization space. These benefits primarily encompass: 

* **Lower origination and aggregation costs** - Trustless and immutable origination results in the reduction of QC, compliance and upfront audit costs. Ability to pledge real time with complete chain of custody reduces custody, payee agent and administrative costs for the warehouse provider while providing significant capital efficiency to the originator.  Embedded servicing eliminates standalone servicing platform and personnel costs.  Estimated benefit of 50-125 bps annually \($15 to $37.5 billion\).
* **Lower deal costs** - Smart contracts and immutable data provide certainty to assets, reducing audit scope from the loan level to the smart contract level. Blockchain acts as custodian and payee agent, and legal documents can come from a smart contract tied to the collateral and resulting loans, saving significant fees. Deals can be done instantaneously, rather than in weeks. Estimated benefit of 20-20 bps annually \($6 to $9 billion\).
* **Improved and more efficient ratings** -  Data certainty reduces deal risk and scope of ratings work.  Knowledge of bondholders eliminates quorum risk for deal votes \(changing servicers, modifying collateral, etc.\)  Blockchain derisks new originators, servicers and lifts rating caps.  Estimated benefit TBD.
* **Improved liquidity** - Real time transparency of underlying collateral eliminates reliance on monthly remittance reports, allowing for continuous pricing and eliminating information asymmetry.  Estimated benefit 100-150 bps annually \($30 to $45 billion\).

